documentation/usage/expense-tracking.md, before:

---
title: Tracking Expenses
description: Tracking expenses throughout the trip
---

# Tracking Expenses

Whether you’re planning a getaway or a business trip, the _Expenses_ tab gives you up to date information to keep on top of your spending.

## Getting Started

1. Log into Surmai and open your trip.
2. In the Basic Information tab, click on **Actions** menu and select the *Edit* action.
3. Add or update the budget amount and currency for your trip.
4. Any existing *Cost* entries are automatically added as expenses.

## Record Expenses by Category

Once your budget is in place, you can start recording actual expenses.

- In the Expenses tab, click **Add Expense**.
- Fill in the details:
  - _Name_ of the expense
  - _Date_ of the expense
  - _Category_ (choose from your previously defined categories or use Other)
  - _Amount_ spent
  - _Note_  (optional but useful for context)
- Save the expense. It will now appear in the list and affect your overall budget tracking.

**Tip:** Encourage collaborators to enter expenses as soon as they happen — timely entry makes the overview far more accurate.

## Upload Attachments

To make your expense tracking more robust and transparent, you can upload attachments (receipts, invoices, screenshots) directly with each expense.

- When adding (or editing) an expense, look for the **Upload Attachment** option.
- Choose a file (image, PDF, etc.) from your device and attach it.
- The attachment will be stored with the expense record, making it easy for future reference.

This is especially useful for shared trips or expense reimbursement later.

## View Your Spending Overview

With expenses recorded and attachments uploaded, the Expenses tab provides a comprehensive view of your trip spending:

- **Budget vs Actual**: Compare the budget you set with the amount spent so far (and remaining).
- **Category Breakdown**: See how spending is distributed across your defined categories — you might highlight e.g. “Meals cost more than expected.”
- **Chronological List**: Review all individual expenses with dates, categories, amounts, and attachments.
- **Attachment Access**: Click any expense to view/download its receipt or supporting document.

## Collaborative Features

If you invited collaborators to your trip (via the “Collaborating on a Trip” workflow), they will also have access to the Expenses tab (assuming permissions). ([Collaborating On A Trip](https://surmai.app/documentation/usage/collaborating-on-a-trip.html))

- Everyone can add/edit expenses (unless the admin has set tighter restrictions).
- Expense records are transparent to the whole group — no more hidden receipts or fragmented spreadsheets.
- Uploading attachments allows the group to audit or review expenses together.

## Summary

The new Expenses tab in Surmai is designed to bring **budgeting, expense tracking, and collaborative transparency** all into one place for your trip.
By using it to:

- Set a clear budget;
- Record every expense by category;
- Attach receipts and invoices;
- Track your spending with an easy overview;
  …you’ll keep your trip finances organized, visible to everyone involved, and less stressful overall.

Happy planning — may your trip stay on budget and full of great experiences!

Commit message:

Updated documentation for multi currency support

documentation/usage/expense-tracking.md, after:

---
title: Tracking Expenses
description: Tracking expenses throughout the trip
---

# Tracking Expenses

Whether you’re planning a getaway or a business trip, the _Expenses_ tab gives you up to date information to keep on top of your spending.

## Getting Started

1. Log into Surmai and open your trip.
2. In the Basic Information tab, click on **Actions** menu and select the _Edit_ action.
3. Add or update the budget amount and currency for your trip.
4. Any existing _Cost_ entries are automatically added as expenses.

## Record Expenses by Category

Once your budget is in place, you can start recording actual expenses.

- In the Expenses tab, click **Add Expense**.
- Fill in the details:
  - _Name_ of the expense
  - _Date_ of the expense
  - _Category_ (choose from your previously defined categories or use Other)
  - _Amount_ spent
  - _Note_ (optional but useful for context)
- Save the expense. It will now appear in the list and affect your overall budget tracking.

**Tip:** Encourage collaborators to enter expenses as soon as they happen — timely entry makes the overview far more accurate.

## Upload Attachments

To make your expense tracking more robust and transparent, you can upload attachments (receipts, invoices, screenshots) directly with each expense.

- When adding (or editing) an expense, look for the **Upload Attachment** option.
- Choose a file (image, PDF, etc.) from your device and attach it.
- The attachment will be stored with the expense record, making it easy for future reference.

This is especially useful for shared trips or expense reimbursement later.

## View Your Spending Overview

With expenses recorded and attachments uploaded, the Expenses tab provides a comprehensive view of your trip spending:

- **Budget vs Actual**: Compare the budget you set with the amount spent so far (and remaining).
- **Category Breakdown**: See how spending is distributed across your defined categories — you might highlight e.g. “Meals cost more than expected.”
- **Chronological List**: Review all individual expenses with dates, categories, amounts, and attachments.
- **Attachment Access**: Click any expense to view/download its receipt or supporting document.

## Collaborative Features

If you invited collaborators to your trip (via the “Collaborating on a Trip” workflow), they will also have access to the Expenses tab (assuming permissions). ([Collaborating On A Trip](https://surmai.app/documentation/usage/collaborating-on-a-trip.html))

- Everyone can add/edit expenses (unless the admin has set tighter restrictions).
- Expense records are transparent to the whole group — no more hidden receipts or fragmented spreadsheets.
- Uploading attachments allows the group to audit or review expenses together.

## Multi Currency Support

Surmai supports multiple currencies by default, making it easy to manage expenses from anywhere in the world. The app automatically uses conversion rates provided by ExchangeRates-API, ensuring up-to-date calculations. All expenses are seamlessly converted to your trip’s budget currency, so you can view and track your total spending in one consistent currency.

### Notes about currency conversion

- Currency conversion rates are for reference only and may not always reflect the latest market values.
- Surmai’s server updates rates once every 24 hours, so brief delays or stale data are possible.
- To check when the latest update occurred, review the PocketBase logs for the SyncCurrencyDataJob at: `https://<your-surmai-server>/_/#/logs?filter=SyncCurrencyDataJob`

## Summary

The new Expenses tab in Surmai is designed to bring **budgeting, expense tracking, and collaborative transparency** all into one place for your trip.
By using it to:

- Set a clear budget;
- Record every expense by category;
- Attach receipts and invoices;
- Track your spending with an easy overview;
  …you’ll keep your trip finances organized, visible to everyone involved, and less stressful overall.

Happy planning — may your trip stay on budget and full of great experiences!
